basics/README.md, before:

This folder contains a selection of simple scripts to explore the capabilities of the pyrpl environment.

## Tips and tricks
As a general rule the documentation (both example `.ipynb` files and the documentation generated by the python code) have inaccuracies or use depreciated attributes. So in most cases it is best to check the source python for a better understanding of the operation.  In particular:
- `*.setup()` commands and module objects only use attributes defined in the `_setup_attributes` list so it is wise to look for the `_setup_attributes` definition at the start of each HardwareModule or SoftwareModule.
- some modules require specific management when being configured.  So it is sensible to check for the parameter `call_setup` in each of the Property definitions used by each of the HardwareModule or SoftwareModule's that are being used.  When present gather all the properties with this parameter together in one call to `*.setup()`
The python3 scripts included in this folder provide starting points to explore each of the key modules implemented in the pyrpl FPGA. Just connect out1 to in1 and out2 to in2 and run each of the scripts to see output of the major pyrpl classes.

## All major features
A good way to see the full capabilities of the pyrpl environment is to run and study the python tests included in the pyrpl package.  To do this clone the repository and look at the output of the following command, run in the parent folder
```
python3 -m nose pyrpl
```

## class Asg
How to use the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module: see `asg_bursts.py`, `integ_dc.py`, `module_attributes.py`
How _not_ to use the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module: `integ_ac.py`

## class Scope
See `module_attributes.py`, `integ_dc.py`

## class Pid
See `integ_dc.py`
Uses FilterModule

## class Pwm
TODO

## class Iq
See `netanalyser.py`

## class IIR
See `filters.ipynb` and `filters.py`

## class DspModule
TODO

## class FilterModule
See `specanalyser.py`

## class Sampler
TODO

## class Trig
TODO

## class SelectProperty
This class provides an important method (change_options) that enables custom waveforms to be defined for use the the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module.  See `module_attributes.py`

## class NetworkAnalyzer
See `netanalyser.py`

## class SpectrumAnalyzer
See `specanalyser.py`.  Note for this script I use the calibration (class CalData) defined in this repository to part calibrate the output.

## class Lockbox
This class typically requires external hardware to run so it is more difficult to provide a simple python3 script to demonstrate.  Suggestions welcome for a simple demonstration of the Lockbox!

## class ModuleManager
See `specanalyser.py`

## class HK
This class provides access to LED and other peripherals on the board.  TODO

## class AMS
This class provides access to the zynq analogue outputs.  TODO

Commit message:

added a few more basic tests

basics/README.md, after:

This folder contains a selection of simple scripts to explore the capabilities of the pyrpl environment.

## Tips and tricks
As a general rule the documentation (both example `.ipynb` files and the documentation generated by the python code) have inaccuracies or use depreciated attributes. So in most cases it is best to check the source python for a better understanding of the operation.  In particular:
- `*.setup()` commands and module objects only use attributes defined in the `_setup_attributes` list so it is wise to look for the `_setup_attributes` definition at the start of each HardwareModule or SoftwareModule.
- some modules require specific management when being configured.  So it is sensible to check for the parameter `call_setup` in each of the Property definitions used by each of the HardwareModule or SoftwareModule's that are being used.  When present gather all the properties with this parameter together in one call to `*.setup()`
The python3 scripts included in this folder provide starting points to explore each of the key modules implemented in the pyrpl FPGA. Just connect out1 to in1 and out2 to in2 and run each of the scripts to see output of the major pyrpl classes.

## All major features
A good way to see the full capabilities of the pyrpl environment is to run and study the python tests included in the pyrpl package.  To do this clone the repository and look at the output of the following command, run in the parent folder
```
python3 -m nose pyrpl
```
Or more recently run pytest

## class Asg
How to use the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module: see `asg_bursts.py`, `integ_dc.py`, `module_attributes.py`
How _not_ to use the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module: `integ_ac.py`

## class Scope
See `module_attributes.py`, `integ_dc.py` and others!

## class Pid
See `integ_dc.py`
Uses FilterModule

## class Iq
See `netanalyser.py`

## class IIR
See `filters.ipynb` and `filters_basic.py`

## class DspModule
Perhaps the main feature of note in this module is the input mux used by many of the examples.

## class FilterModule
See `specanalyser.py`

## class Sampler
This provides sampling and statistics.  See `trigger.py` for an example use of current_output_signal (dsp.py) that is an output from the FPGA sampler register 0x10 in red_pitaya_dsp.v

## class Trig
See `trigger.py`

## class SelectProperty
This class provides an important method (change_options) that enables custom waveforms to be defined for use the the Arbitrary Signal Generator (Asg) module.  See `module_attributes.py`

## class NetworkAnalyzer
See `netanalyser.py`

## class SpectrumAnalyzer
See `specanalyser.py`.  Note for this script I use the calibration (class CalData) defined in this repository to part calibrate the output.

## class Lockbox
This class typically requires external hardware to run so it is more difficult to provide a simple python3 script to demonstrate.  Suggestions welcome for a simple demonstration of the Lockbox!

## class ModuleManager
See `specanalyser.py`

## class Pwm
This class uses the same part of the FPGA as the Ams class.  See `pwm.py`

## class AMS
This class provides access to the slow analogue outputs. See ams.py

## class HK
This class provides access to LED and other peripherals on the board.  See hk.py
